---
permalink: /research/
authorprofile: true
---


<h2>Working Papers</h2>
<b>Escape the Heat: The Dynamics of Migration as Adaptation to Climate Change</b> (JMP)
<br style="line-height: 5px" />
  <p>Abstract: Climate change will lead to large changes in global weather patterns and extreme events. To understand the effectiveness of migration in limiting exposure to future climate damages, I specify and estimate a dynamic lifecycle model of migration within Mexico. I combine the lifecycle model with a non-stationary and spatially heterogeneous model of the climate. Estimation makes use of a rich sample of life histories, covering the years 1950–2019, and follows a nested full-solution pseudo-maximum likelihood routine. I combine the estimated model with full-count census data to simulate forward population movements through 2080 under a variety of counterfactual scenarios. First, I find that predicted warming under a business-as-usual climate scenario will cause the lifetime value of migration to be over 65% higher for today’s infants than today’s young adults living in Mexico. Moreover, the ability to migrate domestically reduces expected lifetime climate damages, with this reduction increasing in the degree of warming: today’s young adults face 29% lower lifetime climate damages because of their ability to migrate whereas today's infants face 33% lower lifetime damages from the same. I conclude by using the model to understand how the dynamic structure of a policy can lead to very different choices and welfare outcomes for the affected population. I find that policies that both exploit the option value of future opportunities and allow for individuals to choose the timing of adoption can induce large net welfare improvements.</p>
<b>PFAS-Contaminated Drinking Water Harms Infants</b> - with Bo Guo, Wesley Howden, Ashley Langer, Derek Lemoine
<br style="line-height: 5px" /> In revision for <i>Science </i>
  <p>Abstract: There is evidence of widespread human exposure to per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) but limited evidence of human health impacts. Using data on all New Hampshire births from 2010–2019, we show that receiving water that has flowed beneath a PFAS-contaminated site increases first-year infant mortality by 161% [95% CI: 70–251%], the chance of a birth before 28 weeks of gestational age by 120% [95% CI: 30–210%], and the chance of birthweight below 1,000 g by 152% [95% CI: 48–257%]. Extrapolating to the contiguous U.S., PFAS contamination imposes annual social costs of approximately $8 billion. These health costs are substantially larger than the cost of removing PFAS from the public water supply.</p>
